# RMGEAFA: regularized multigroup exploratory approximate factor analysis

We provide a framework for exploratory factor analysis that allows
analysis of (ultra)high-dimensional low-sample-size data with minimal
required user input. Currently, the method allows for exploratory factor
analysis of data obtained from a single or multiple groups, subject to
simple structure and/or congruence over groups. Because estimation of
common and unique factors is problematic in the high-dimensional
setting, an approximate factor model with weakly correlated residuals is
used to model the data. Following the literature on high-dimensional
approximate factor models and proofs of consistency therein, a
least-squares criterion is used subject to regularization constraints
and penalties to solve the indeterminacy of the factor model. The
algorithm uses an alternating optimization with alternating direction
method of multipliers approach which is well-known for its computational
efficiency and good convergence properties.

## Authors

Van Deun, K., Lê, T. T., Malinowski, J., Mols, F., & Schoormans, D.
(2025, March 7). Regularized multigroup exploratory approximate factor
analysis for easy analysis of complex data.
<https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/9twbk_v1>

## Libraries

MASS, matlib, psych, tmod, dplyr, stringr, tibble, BiocManager, haven

You can install them by running:

``` r
install.packages(c("MASS", "matlib", "psych", "tmod", "dplyr", "stringr", "tibble", "BiocManager", "haven"), repos = "http://cran.us.r-project.org")
```

Note that it is assumed that your working folder is the root folder of
the repository for the code to work. Running a quatro notebook
temporarily changes the working folder to the folder in which the
notebooks can be found - this behaviour has been accounted for and can
be leaved untouched.

## Description

### R

The ‘R’ folder contains core functions, as well as simulation.R, which
provides functions necessary for the simulation study.

### demo

The ‘demo’ folder contains the three empirical analyses performed as
well the simulation study, in the form of Quatro notebooks. Before
running any empirical analysis, created the following empty folders in
the ‘demo’ directory: GeneticDataGeneratedFiles;
QoLCancerSurvivorsGeneratedFiles; ReanalysisOSRIGeneratedFiles;
SimulationGeneratedFiles. All files generated by running an analysis can
be found inside these folder (for example, running genetic-data.qmd will
generate files that can then be found in GeneticDataGeneratedFiles).

### data

The ‘data’ folder contains a file for re-analysis of Open Sex Role
Inventory (OSRI), and a folder with artificially created data for the
Quality of Life cancer survivors analysis. For obtaining the genetic
dataset:

1.  Go to [GEO Accession
    viewer](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE127711).
2.  In the ‘GEO accession’ field, write GSE127711
3.  Click ‘GO’
4.  Scroll down to ‘’Download family’, click on ‘Series Matrix File(s)’.
    This will start the download.
5.  Put this downloaded file in the ‘data’ folder.
