# RMGEAFA: regularized multigroup exploratory approximate factor analysis
We provide a framework for exploratory factor analysis that allows analysis of (ultra)high-dimensional low-sample-size data with minimal required user input. Currently, the method allows for exploratory factor analysis of data obtained from a single or multiple groups subject to simple structure and/or congruence over groups. Because estimation of common and unique factors is problematic in the high-dimensional setting, an approximate factor model with weakly correlated residuals is used to model the data. Following the literature on high-dimensional approximate factor models and proofs of consistency therein, a least-squares criterion is used Subject to regularization constraints and penalties to solve the indeterminacy of the factor model. The algorithm uses an alternating optimization with alternating direction method of multipliers approach which is well-known for its computational efficiency and good convergence properties.

Currently, this repository is still under construction and mainly contains the source code for the functions that implement the algorithm, model selection, and simulation study. A quarto notebook for reanalysis of the genetic data is also included; notebooks for the reanalysis of the OSRI data and a simulated version of the quality of life of cancer survivors data will be added soon.

# References
Van Deun, K., Lê, T. T., Malinowski, J., Mols, F., & Schoormans, D. (2025, March 7). Regularized multigroup exploratory approximate factor analysis for easy analysis of complex data. https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/9twbk_v1
